COMP3011 Coursework 2 Video Script

Target length: around 4 minutes 30 seconds to 4 minutes 55 seconds.
The video does not need to be exactly 5 minutes. The brief says maximum 5 minutes, so do not go over 5 minutes.

Hi, this is my COMP3011 Coursework 2 search engine tool. The project is a small search engine for quotes.toscrape.com. It crawls the quote listing pages, builds an inverted index, saves it to disk, and lets the user search it through a command-line interface.

I will start the shell with:

python -m src.main

The four required commands are build, load, print, and find.

First I will run build. This crawls the quote pages, extracts visible text using Beautiful Soup, builds the inverted index, and saves it to data/index.json. The crawler follows the pagination pages and observes the politeness window by waiting 6 seconds between successive requests to the website.

Next I will run load. This loads the saved index from disk.

Now I will run:

print nonsense

This prints the inverted index for one word. It shows which pages contain the word, the frequency on each page, and the word positions.

Now I will run:

find indifference

This searches for one word. Then:

find good friends

This is a multi-word query. It returns pages that contain both words. The results are ranked using TF-IDF, so pages with stronger term relevance are shown first.

I also added extra features beyond the minimum requirements. This command searches for an exact phrase:

find "good friends"

It uses the stored word positions to check that the words appear next to each other in order.

This command:

suggest indiference

suggests likely indexed words for misspellings or partial words.

And:

stats

shows index statistics such as page count, total terms, unique terms, and common terms.

For edge cases, an empty query such as find returns a usage message. A missing word such as find qwertywordnotfound returns no results instead of crashing.

Now I will explain the code structure.

The project is modular. crawler.py handles HTTP requests, HTML parsing, pagination, the 6-second delay, and request errors. It uses Requests and Beautiful Soup.

indexer.py handles tokenisation and index construction. It uses a regular expression to extract words and lowercases them, so the search is case-insensitive. That means Good, GOOD, and good are treated as the same word.

The main data structure is:

word -> page URL -> frequency and positions

This is an inverted index. It is useful because search can look up the posting lists for query words instead of scanning every page every time.

search.py handles loading, saving, validation, searching, TF-IDF ranking, phrase search, snippets, and suggestions. Multi-word search works by intersecting the posting lists for the query terms. Phrase search uses the saved positions. TF-IDF combines term frequency with inverse document frequency, so rarer terms have more influence on the score.

main.py provides the command-line shell and user-facing output.

For testing, I will run:

python -m pytest --cov=src --cov-report=term-missing

The project has unit tests for the crawler, indexer, search logic, and command shell. It also has integration tests for the full index-save-load-search workflow and a performance test using synthetic pages. The crawler tests use fake HTTP sessions, so they do not contact the live website or wait 6 seconds. The current result is 28 tests passing with 90 percent coverage.

There is also a GitHub Actions workflow that runs the tests automatically on GitHub.

For version control, the Git history shows meaningful stages: core crawler and indexer, CLI, tests, advanced search features, documentation, benchmarking, snippets, and final index updates. I also added a v1.0.0 release tag.

Finally, I used OpenAI Codex during development, and I am declaring that use. Codex helped interpret the brief, scaffold the project, write code, improve tests, and draft documentation. It was useful for generating ideas and test cases, but I still had to verify the code myself.

For example, I checked that the saved index matched a fresh crawl and repeatedly ran the test suite. One issue was that generated Python cache files were included early, so I fixed that with a .gitignore and cleaned the repository. This showed me that AI-generated work still needs review, testing, and understanding.

Overall, the project meets the required build, load, print, and find commands, and adds TF-IDF ranking, phrase search, query suggestions, snippets, statistics, validation, automated testing, and benchmarking. Thank you.
